---platform: windows 10 iot coredevice: colibri t30language: csharp---Run a simple Csharp sample on Toradex Colibri T30 device running Windows 10 IoT Core===---# Table of Contents-   [Introduction](#Introduction)-   [Step 1: Prerequisites](#Prerequisites)-   [Step 2: Prepare your Device](#PrepareDevice)-   [Step 3: Build and Run the Sample](#Build)<a name="Introduction"></a># Introduction**About this document**This document describes how to connect Toradex Colibri T30 device running Windows 10 IoT Core with Azure IoT SDK. This multi-step process includes:-   Configuring Azure IoT Hub-   Registering your IoT device-   Build and deploy Azure IoT SDK on device<a name="Prerequisites"></a># Step 1: PrerequisitesYou should have the following items ready before beginning the process:-   [Setup your IoT hub][lnk-setup-iot-hub]-   [Provision your device and get its credentials][lnk-manage-iot-hub]-   Toradex Colibri T30 device.-   [Azure SDK for .NET](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=48178)-   Windows 10 IoT Core Package-   Virtual Ethernet#### Install Visual Studio 2015 and Tools-   To create Windows IoT Core solutions, you will need to install [Visual Studio 2015](https://www.visualstudio.com/en-us/products/vs-2015-product-editions.aspx). You can install any edition of Visual Studio, including the free Community edition.    Make sure to select the **Universal Windows App Development Tools**, the component required for writing apps Windows 10:<a name="PrepareDevice"></a># Step 2: Prepare your Device-   Follow the instructions from [device website](<https://www.toradex.com/computer-on-modules/colibri-arm-family/nvidia-tegra-3>).<a name="Build"></a># Step 3: Build and Run the Sample<a name="Step_3_1:_Connect"/>## 3.1 Connect the Device-   On your computer, run Virtual Ethernet as administrator.-   Plug the device into a USB port on your computer.<a name="Step_3_2:_Build"/>## 3.2  Build the Samples-   Start a new instance of Visual Studio 2015. Open the **iothub_csharp_client.sln** solution (/azure-iot-sdks/csharp) from your local copy of the repository.-   In Visual Studio, from **Solution Explorer**, navigate to the **UWPSample(Universal Windows)** project.-   Locate the following code in the **ConnectionStrings.cs** file:
        public const string DeviceConnectionString = "<replace>";
-   Replace the above placeholder with device connection string you obtained in [Step 1](#Step-1:-Prerequisites) and save the changes.
-   Choose the right architecture (ARM) and set the debugging method to "Remote Machine":
-   To deploy the binaries on your device, right-click on the UWPSample project in the **Solution Explorer**, select **Properties** and navigate to the **Debug** tab:
    Type in the IP Address of your device. Make sure the "Use authentication" box is unchecked.
-   Build the solution.
<a name="Step_3_3:_Run"/>## 3.3 Run and Validate the Samples
### 3.3.1 Send Device Events to IoT Hub-   In Visual Studio, from **Solution Explorer**, right-click the **UWPSample(Universal Windows)** project, click **Debug &minus;&gt; Start new instance** to build and run the sample. 
-   See [Manage IoT Hub][lnk-manage-iot-hub] to learn how to observe the messages IoT Hub receives from the application.### 3.3.2 Receive messages from IoT Hub
-   See [Manage IoT Hub][lnk-manage-iot-hub] to learn how to send cloud-to-device messages to the application.[lnk-setup-iot-hub]: ../setup_iothub.md[lnk-manage-iot-hub]: ../manage_iot_hub.md